Add Best Practice: Use Convention Plugins (#32973)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/best_practices_structuring_builds.adoc

=== Tags
`<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:structuring-builds,#structuring-builds>>`

[[use_convention_plugins]]
== Use Convention Plugins for Common Build Logic

> 

Reviewer: This is so closely associated with "[Favor build-logic Composite Builds for Build Logic](https://docs.gradle.org/release-nightly/userguide/best_practices_general.html#favor_composite_builds)" and `buildSrc`, I wonder if we should mention it in some way. At the very least, this BP needs to come right after the `build-logic` BP.

🤔 It feels odd not to mention `buildSrc` at all.

Use <<implementing_gradle_plugins_precompiled.adoc#implemention_precompiled_plugins,convention plugins>> to encapsulate and reuse shared build logic across multiple projects in your build.

=== Explanation

> Instead of duplicating configuration across multiple buildscripts, you can easily move common logic into a reusable convention plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of duplicating configuration across multiple build scripts, you can easily move common logic into a reusable convention plugin.
```

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins-avoid/kotlin",files="project-a/build.gradle.kts[tags=avoid-this];project-b/build.gradle.kts[tags=avoid-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins-avoid/groovy",files="project-a/build.gradle[tags=avoid-this];project-b/build.gradle[tags=avoid-this]"]
====

<1> Common compiler settings repeated across multiple projects.
<2> Shared test configuration that must be maintained in multiple places.
<3> Common dependencies that could be managed centrally.
<4> Unique project dependencies.

==== Do This Instead

Create a convention plugin in `build-logic`:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins-do/kotlin",files="settings.gradle.kts[tags=do-this];build-logic/build.gradle.kts;build-logic/src/main/kotlin/my.java-common-conventions.gradle.kts[tags=do-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins-do/groovy",files="settings.gradle[tags=do-this];build-logic/build.gradle;build-logic/src/main/groovy/my.java-common-conventions.gradle[tags=do-this]"]
====

And apply the plugin in any build file where you want to use the shared logic:

> 

Reviewer: Can you add the download button here?

Reviewer 2: Will do
